top - 09:03:05 up 3 min,  0 users, load average: 0.23, 0.29, 0.13

System load/CPU Load – is a measurement of CPU over or under-utilization in a Linux system; the number of processes which are being executed by the CPU or in waiting state.

Load average – is the average system load calculated over a given period of time of 1, 5 and 15 minutes.

.........................................................
Tasks: 100 total,   1 running,  53 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie

zombie process in Linux is a terminated child process that remains in the system's process table while waiting for its parent process to collect its exit status. A zombie process is a type of process that has completed its execution but still has an entry in the process table.

.........................................................
%Cpu(s):  0.0 us,  0.0 sy,  0.0 ni,100.0 id,  0.0 wa,  0.0 hi,  0.0 si,  0.0 st

us: user cpu time (or) % CPU time spent in user space
sy: system cpu time (or) % CPU time spent in kernel space
ni: user nice cpu time (or) % CPU time spent on low priority processes
id: idle cpu time (or) % CPU time spent idle
wa: io wait cpu time (or) % CPU time spent in wait (on disk)
hi: hardware irq (or) % CPU time spent servicing/handling hardware interrupts
si: software irq (or) % CPU time spent servicing/handling software interrupts
st: steal time - - % CPU time in involuntary wait by virtual cpu while hypervisor is servicing another processor (or) % CPU time stolen from a virtual machine

....................................................

KiB Mem :   988680 total,   651052 free,    92284 used,   245344 buff/cache

Buff/ Cache: The user cmd which we give will be takein in OS library and the cmd will be copied in cache. Buffer will have all the metadata info from cache.
So even if the cmg is executed repeteadly the cache wont increase as the cmd is already saved and buffer will check from the cache.


 
diff between snapshots and AMI.
 
increase s3 storage. : use service quota request for 1000 buckets increase.
 
kernal panic how do u fix: unexpected error casued and system halts . Usually caused by software bugs, h/w malfunctions etc.
Resolution : COnnect to serial console and login to VM
             click Reset Vm from google cloud
             GRUB splash screen apperas and click previous kernel and reboot the system and initiate SSH. 
 

increase disk usuage from technical side.  sudo apt install -y gparted
 
 
settings lo conf change chesam but still not reflecting.   Do reboot and then  reflect.
 
 
increase ec2 usuage nina 5 sec run today it got delay Y ??
 


I have few questions which was asked me recently 
1. What details you give to Storage Team to Extend the Disk. 

Ans :
      Press Windows Key + R.
      Type msinfo32. Select OK or press Enter.
      Go under Components, Storage, Drives, or Disks. The information under Disks has more details.



2. What command you used to see which LUN is Assign with Which Disk

3. If 10GB is added by Storage team but you are not able to get that 10GB then how we troubleshoot it

How to check Kernel Version of Linux OS? 
 lsb_release-a 

How to check IP address of server?
PING

How to check default gateway of server?
Ipconfig


What is ulimit?
ulimit is a built-in Linux shell command that allows viewing or limiting system resource amounts that individual users consume. 
ulimit -aS


How to check which RPM has created /etc/passwd file?


Disk space is still full even after deleting a file of 5GB?
If you're not sure which program might be holding the files open, you can resolve this by rebooting your computer. Mount points and other filesystems: If you're got several drives or disk arrays mounted on your computer, it's possible the files you deleted are not actually located on the disk that's full.


How to ssh to your server?
Use PUTTY or ssh@ ip address of server.



Sudo bash vs sudo su -
sudo su lauches su directly with super user privileges, while sudo bash lauches the shell first and then executes the command with bash -c 


What is use of /home/user/.bash_profile?
used to set up and customize the Bash shell when a user logs in to the system. 


How to create alias of a command?

 What is use of ~/.bashrc?
bashrc file is a script file that's executed when a user logs in. The file itself contains a series of configurations for the terminal session which shows in colour.

What is file name to manage dns entires on Linux?
 /etc/resolv.conf file.


 What is use of /etc/hosts entires? 
 The /etc/hosts file contains the Internet Protocol (IP) host names and addresses for the local host and other hosts in the Internet network.


What is use of W command?
gives us important information about who is currently using the computer,


How to kill all process of any user?
Kill pid

How to mount disk permanently?
sudo nano /etc/fstab
Add /dev/sdc /mnt/sdc ext4 defaults 0 0  in last 
save and reboot.


How to check hidden files and how to create it?
ls -a  and right click on file and create using a  .(dot)


How to start process at start up time?
systemd or crontab -e


What does nameless directory represent?
empty directory

How do you check for free disk space?
df -H 


How do you manage services on a server?
systemctl enable/disable service.

How do you check size of a directory or file on your system?
du 


How do you check open port on Linux Servers?
lsof, netstat, netcat.


How do you check CPU utilization for a process?
VMSTAT.

How do you deal with mounting partitions?
mount cmd


How do you find use of a command you don’t know?
apropos --exact ls or man 


How to check if ACL is set on a file?
ls cmd

What command do you use to check attribute of a file?
lsattr


What would happen if I remove execute permission from a directory?

I am getting message (No Space Left On Device) and df -Th show 50G free?
restart the process.
sudo lsof / | grep deleted
sudo systemctl restart servicename


How to check if OS is running on Virtual of Physical Machine?
using the dmidecode command.


How to change owner and Group of a file?
chgrp

What is use of NMAP command?
Nmap is a network scanning tool—an open source Linux command-line tool—used for network exploration, host discovery, and security auditing.

How to remove an INODE from Linux File system?
Unfortunately, there is no way to free inodes other than deleting files we don't need. 





